notes/code_syntax.md, before:

# Code-in-text

## Syntax

no backslashes - confuses with character escaping

rust macro syntax is nice

`[x = blah()]`

TODO port notes over from my tablet

## Language Choice

Language must be 
- Embeddable
- Intuitive
- Easy to integrate with the Rust parser
- Sandboxable(ish)?
  - If user tries to reassign a pre-existing value, prob don't let that happen

### Python?

Initial choice

PyO3 can embed a python interpreter
- but seemingly cannot reset it?
  - [with_embedded_python_interpreter](https://docs.rs/pyo3/latest/pyo3/fn.with_embedded_python_interpreter.html)
  - "many Python modules implemented in C do not support multiple Python interpreters in a single process, it is not safe to call this function more than once."

batteries included library

but hooking Rust into it seems difficult. like, really difficult.

Ways to embed python
- [PyO3](https://github.com/pyo3/pyo3)
  - manual ffi [pyo3-ffi](https://crates.io/crates/pyo3-ffi/0.16.5)
  - build a shared lib as a "native python module" [maturin](https://github.com/PyO3/maturin) NOT WHAT WE WANT
  - TODO test if the macros for adding python modules etc works when embedding, not just with maturin
- entirely manual [https://docs.python.org/3/extending/embedding.html]
- [RustPython](https://rustpython.github.io/) (reimplemetation in python)
  - seems unstable and not ready
- [pyembed](https://docs.rs/pyembed/latest/pyembed/index.html)
  - lots of options for the allocator, not so much for adding new functions

If we use python, how does that interface with virtualenvs?
Is PyO3 essentially doing a dylink with the nearest "python 3.X DLL"? That sounds like it would *just work* in a venv

### Lua?

Has mature embedder library for Rust [rlua](https://github.com/amethyst/rlua)

[Locking global variables](http://lua-users.org/lists/lua-l/2003-08/msg00081.html)

confusion with lualatex

lua can return functions, so this is possible
```lua
function bold()
    return function (x)
        return format("bold", x)
    end
end
```

## Lifecycle

LaTeX infamously requires multiple runs because back-references (e.g. table of contents) can't be constructed at the first reference.
e.g. when you create a table of contents, one pass through the file is required to create the `.toc`, then another run detects that file and includes the relevant references.
If we want this to create a markdown version, we'd have to embed the ToC ourselves, and ideally we don't do multiple runs.
TODO figure out how this looks from a scripting perspective.

Commit message:

Got pyembed python functions to work

notes/code_syntax.md, after:

# Code-in-text

## Syntax

no backslashes - confuses with character escaping

rust macro syntax is nice

`[x = blah()]`

TODO port notes over from my tablet

## Language Choice

Language must be 
- Embeddable
- Intuitive
- Easy to integrate with the Rust parser
- Sandboxable(ish)?
  - If user tries to reassign a pre-existing value, prob don't let that happen

### Python?

Initial choice

PyO3 can embed a python interpreter
- but seemingly cannot reset it?
  - [with_embedded_python_interpreter](https://docs.rs/pyo3/latest/pyo3/fn.with_embedded_python_interpreter.html)
  - "many Python modules implemented in C do not support multiple Python interpreters in a single process, it is not safe to call this function more than once."

batteries included library

but hooking Rust into it seems difficult. like, really difficult.

Ways to embed python
- [PyO3](https://github.com/pyo3/pyo3)
  - manual ffi [pyo3-ffi](https://crates.io/crates/pyo3-ffi/0.16.5)
  - build a shared lib as a "native python module" [maturin](https://github.com/PyO3/maturin) NOT WHAT WE WANT
  - TODO test if the macros for adding python modules etc works when embedding, not just with maturin
- entirely manual [https://docs.python.org/3/extending/embedding.html]
- [RustPython](https://rustpython.github.io/) (reimplemetation in python)
  - seems unstable and not ready
- [pyembed](https://docs.rs/pyembed/latest/pyembed/index.html)
  - lots of options for the allocator, not so much for adding new functions

If we use python, how does that interface with virtualenvs?
Is PyO3 essentially doing a dylink with the nearest "python 3.X DLL"? That sounds like it would *just work* in a venv

#### Embedding python is hard
Tried using PyO3, which as expected does not support using the macros e.g. `#[pymodule]` for attaching modules before the interpreter starts running.

Looked at using `pyembed` to initialize the interpreter - this requires a bunch of CPython FFI, and unfortunately PyO3 doesn't expose the magic it does to make functions FFI-able.
For example, the `#[pyfunction]` macro will create a `PyMethodDef` and a function harness to convert the raw python arguments (e.g. `self: *mut PyObject, args_tuple: *mut PyObject` for `METH_VARARGS`) into Rust-y equivalents, but this is created as `::pyo3::impl_::pyfunction::PyMethodDef`.
This can only be converted to `pyo3::ffi::PyMethodDef` with a `pub(crate)` function, _so I can't use it_ when I call `PyModule_Create`.
That is mildly infuriating.

For now, a holdover solution would be to manually create the PyModule and force it into the globals dict.
```rust
let module = PyModule::new(py, "turnip_text")?;
module.add_function(wrap_pyfunction!(experiment, module)?)?;
let globals = [("turnip_text", module)].into_py_dict(py);
```
This means you can't do `import turnip_text`, but that isn't the end of the world?

Alternative thought: you can do `Python::with_gil` inside the PyInit, which means you can just use PyO3's easy module creation instead.
This feels like it shouldn't work, but I'm not going to look a gift horse in the mouth.

### Lua?

Has mature embedder library for Rust [rlua](https://github.com/amethyst/rlua)

[Locking global variables](http://lua-users.org/lists/lua-l/2003-08/msg00081.html)

confusion with lualatex

lua can return functions, so this is possible
```lua
function bold()
    return function (x)
        return format("bold", x)
    end
end
```

## Lifecycle

LaTeX infamously requires multiple runs because back-references (e.g. table of contents) can't be constructed at the first reference.
e.g. when you create a table of contents, one pass through the file is required to create the `.toc`, then another run detects that file and includes the relevant references.
If we want this to create a markdown version, we'd have to embed the ToC ourselves, and ideally we don't do multiple runs.
TODO figure out how this looks from a scripting perspective.
